In this problem, we are given
a function Z equal to ((A OR B)
AND C), the whole thing negated.
We are then asked to
produce a CMOS circuit that
implements the function Z.
We know that our CMOS
circuits consists
of a pull-down circuit
made up purely of NFETs,
and it is called pull-down
because if it is on,
it connects the output to ground
to produce a low (or 0) output.
We also have a pull-up circuit
made up purely of PFETs,
and it is called a pull-up
because if it is on,
it connects the output to Vdd
to produce a high (or 1) output.
If Z = NOT((A OR B) AND C),
then NOT(Z) = ((A OR B) AND C).
To draw the pull-down
portion of this circuit,
we take a look at when the
function produces Z = 0.
This occurs when ((A
or B) and C) equals 1,
so the pull-down circuitry
should be on when ((A or B)
and C) equals 1.
So (A OR B) = 1 and C = 1.
This means that we want a
parallel(A,B) in series with C
circuit for our pull-down.
The parallel(A,B) corresponds to
(A OR B) = 1 because if either
A or B equals 1 then we have
a path from Z to the bottom
of the parallel circuitry.
Then if C is also 1, we complete
our path between Z and ground.
So, if either (A = 1 and C
= 1) or (B = 1 and C = 1),
Z is pulled down to ground
and produces a 0 output.
To generate our
pull-up, we simply
replace parallel
circuits with series,
and series with parallel.
This will ensure that whenever
our pull-down circuit is off,
our pull-up circuit is on.
So our pull-up circuitry is
series(A,B) in parallel with C.
To convince ourselves
that this is in fact
the correct pull-up circuit,
we know that the pull-up
must make Z equal to 1.
Z = 1 if ((A OR B) AND C) the
whole thing negated equals 1,
or ((A OR B) AND C) = 0.
This is true when either
(A OR B) = 0 or C = 0.
This means that either A =
0 and B = 0 OR just C = 0.
Pull-up circuits use PFETs which
are on when the input is low
(or 0).
So the equivalent circuit for
this is series(A,B) ORed with C
which is equal to series(A,B)
in parallel with C.